Everybody's built that bonfire that year. I'll
show you these pictures of the bonfire of 48.
It was an upper-class privilege to work on the
bonfire. Freshmen could guard it, but they could
not work on the bonfire because that was an
upper-class privilege. But could freshmen help
cut out in the cut area? No. We were not, or at least I
don't know of anyone who went out there. We would
build our little campfires around the bonfire,
and we would guard it to keep anybody from sneaking
in there and setting it off. About how long did the
work on the bonfire last? About how many weeks? Oh,
I would say at
least for possibly six weeks. And the, so the
upperclassmen, I'm using sophomores now as an
upperclassman, they're the ones that did the
cutting and the hauling. Yes. And it was, Bonfire
was erected on the drill field. On the drill field.
Up in the corner opposite the YMCA. Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm. And it was one log height that was not a
double stack. It was a teepee style as you see in
these pictures. We had a center pole which was
actually two telephone poles lashed together and
set in the ground six or eight feet. Were there any
pranks or anything by anybody to try to Did anybody
try to set it off on fire or anything like that? Very
definitely. In the fall of 48,
we were 0 and 9 going into the Texas game. One
afternoon during English class, we were up on the
third floor of the academic building. The windows
were open, and we heard this airplane noise. And we
looked out. and had a perfect view of the drill
field. And here came this light airplane in a
slight dive. And the door opened on the airplane
and out tumbled this silvery looking thing, which
turned out to be a five gallon can of gas with a rag
wick stuffed in it. And these guys had lit that
thing in the airplane and kicked it out. And they
missed by a good margin. And by the time the can of
gasoline, five gallon can, hit the ground, it put
the wick out and gasoline went all over the ground
and nothing caught. Well, they came back around
and tried it again. And this time, we were able to
get the NC number the registration number off the
underside of the wing. And somebody, I don't
remember who it was, went to one of the professor's
offices and called Easterwood Tower and gave them
the number on the wing. And they put that on the CAA
wire and it went to all airports in the area. And
this particular airplane, to no one's surprise,
came out of Austin. By the time they landed back at
Robert Miller Airport, they had a delegation out
there to meet them. I don't know whatever happened
to them, but I'm sure they got in a lot of trouble.
And they weren't Aggies. They were not Aggies. I
mean, the people meeting them, they were in
federal trouble. Oh, they were in federal
trouble, all kinds of trouble. Let's go back now,
football season. Describe what it was like for a
fish to go to Aggie football games. It was a
highlight, the social highlight. Everything
revolved around athletics. Your social life
revolved around athletics, with the exception of
an occasional ballman row dance or Bob Hope coming
to town with Les Brown and his band right now. The
social activity revolved around football games.
And those of us who had dates, I was still unmarried
during the football season. Our dates would come
up, and we'd make arrangements for them to live at
professors' houses, or those of us who could
afford it would put them up at the Aggieland Inn.
Did you do that even as a freshman? Yeah. Oh, sure.
Is a freshman privileged to have a date? And the
better looking, the better. Do you have any idea,
what did an overnight fee cost at the Aggieland Inn
or the faculty member's home? Well, the faculty
member's home was nothing. And at the Aggieland
Inn, I don't know, I think it was
Eight or nine bucks, something like that. Big
money for that. You saved up all season for that.
Now you were, you had this very important young
lady from high school that you had known? Yes, I
did. She was my high school sweetheart. She came to
games even when your freshman year? Yes, my folks
would bring her to games. And they would either
drive back after the game or my folks and she would
stay at the Andersons' home as their guests. All
right, for you as a fish, was there a march-in in
those days of the Corps? Oh yeah, couldn't get out
of that. We had march-ins just like you do today.
And then how did you meet her in the stands?
Did y'all have previously agreed upon place? Yes,
we did. Because the student section, there was no
reserved seating. And I'd say, why don't you sit
around the 20 or 30 yard line? You know, fish in
those days, you had to sit down low and you had to sit
down near the goal line. And I would say, get as far
up to the 20 yard line as you can. And when we're
dismissed, I'll meet you there. And do you
remember any important football game events or
experiences? There was nearly always a dance
before the game on Friday night. In Sabisa? Well,
the big dances would be on Saturday night, of
course, after the game. At Sabisa? At Sabisa.
Sabisa was... That was a place where if you were
going to have an orchestra, and usually we would
have Aggieland orchestra, which was very good, by
the
way. When there was a dance after the game, or any
other big dance, what did a young man and a young
woman wear to Aggie dances then? We wore our
uniforms. And what did they wear? The young ladies
wore suitable dresses. They were not formal
dances. The only time we had formal dances was when
we would have big bands, like Vaughn Monroe, Les
Brown. Then it would be formal. Or the ring dance,
or the... Boot dance. The boot dance, and...
Cotton ball. Cotton ball, sweetheart ball, the
big balls. How did Aggies and their dates behave at
those dances? Just as... the Sunday school crowd
would have been proud of us. Now, did anybody,
that's the answer I expected. I was at the dance.
Yeah. But did anybody tell you as a fish or at any
other time how you were supposed to behave? Or did
you, did everybody just understand that? Yeah, we
just understood. And you palled around at a dance.
You palled around with upperclassmen. Mm-hmm.
And Of course, the athletes were a pretty
close-knit group to begin with. And we would, our
sport would get a table. We'd have all track
people. Football guys would have two or three
football tables. And we'd intermingle like that.
And we'd dance with each other's dates. And we'd
just have a big time. Now, did you and your track
buddies, did you all feel that you were truly part
of the student body and accepted by them? Oh,
absolutely. That's the answer I expected.
Absolutely. In fact, we were put up on a slight
pedestal. Not too high, you understand, because
you don't want to fish to get a big head. But we were
pretty well thought of, I'll put it that way. And
did you go on a core trip your freshman year? Yes, I
went on a core trip to Austin. What was that like?
Well, it was pretty inspiring for me and some of my
fish buddies because we were 09 when we went down to
Austin and we just had to figure out some way to make
the TSIPs pay if we couldn't beat them. So some of
the agronomy students told some of the fish
students, look, we've got this new hybrid
ryegrass seed, guaranteed to sprout. All it needs
is a little water. So we got, I don't know, 200 or 300
pounds of that and sneaked into Memorial Stadium
in the dark of night. about the second week of
September. Now, who is we? I mean, November. Who is
we? Who is we? Probably the same bunch of us that
stole the outhouse. Billy Bless, Don Graves,
Marshall Sorrell, me, Jody Zurn. One car load? Two
car loads. Two car loads. Actually, a car load and
pickup truck load because we had to carry the grass
seed down there. Anyhow, we snuck into Memorial
Stadium. How'd you get into the stadium? We just
climbed over the gate. Okay. There were no guards.
Yeah, yeah. No guards. And if we couldn't have got
in through the gate, we'd have scaled the wall. It
was nothing for us. We were athletes. And we, from
goal line to goal line, we put a big A, M. Fifty yards
to the letter. And the greenskeepers were very
accommodating there at Austin, and they kept the
field watered. As luck would have it, about a week
before Thanksgiving, we had a good hard freeze,
which killed the Bermuda. Oh, oh, oh. This was
hybrid ryegrass. Didn't harm the ryegrass. That,
all that water that they had been putting on there
stimulated it. And with the Bermuda turning
brown, the ryegrass just stood out green. And
there it was. Did anybody here officially know who
had done that? Oh, no. No. Absolutely not. Did,
did. Their lips were sealed. And how long was it
before that secret got out? As to who? Oh, nobody
ever knew. Is that right? Is that right? Nobody, at
least nobody ever admitted it. And I presume it was
in the paper. It was in the paper. It was in the, the
bat had a big story on it in the Austin paper. Y'all
left here about what time of night to go there and do
it? Oh, we left here around, I don't know, 9
o'clock. Got down there about 11 or 11.30. And we
were back in our bunks by two.
And Colonel Boatner never asked for the guilty
party to step forward, which surprised us. And I
don't know what we would have done if he had made
that demand. I think we would have taken the tack
that He's just doing this to go through the
motions. He doesn't really expect anybody to step
forward. Now, as far as you remember, whose idea
was it? Who thought it up?
I have no idea. Somebody just proposed it in a
late-night bull session. And how did y'all pay for
the seed? We didn't. The senior agronomy students
made it available. That's what I was going to say.
It just happened to come out. It was made
available. Okay, okay. But that senior did not go
with y'all to, was it all fish that did the
scattering? It was all fish. The same dirty half
dozen. And so what did you and your buddies do when
you went to the game and looked at it? We just
We just slapped each other on the back, and
everybody said, that's good bull. Now, you went
over there for the Corps trip, and you marched down
Congress. Marched up Congress Avenue. How did you
and your buddies feel being part of the Corps
marching like that?
We were damn proud. Damn proud. Now, did the crowd
standing on the curbs, did they respond
positively? Very positively. All right. Now,
there's another one. In all these interviews,
when I've asked that question, nobody yet has
offered any bad, you know, somebody said
something or threw something or was an Everybody
says, no, no, no. They were always very
respectful. Now, I presume, and the game,
unfortunately, did not come out favorably for the
Aggies. Well, it did if you look on a tie as a
favorable outcome, especially since we were
about four touchdowns underdog. We tied them
14-14, and we scored from scrimmage. toward South
Gold. That's right, that's right. So you go home
Christmas. How did you feel about being an Aggie
and academically, how did you feel that you were
doing here?
We had gotten our midterm grade reports, I don't
know, I guess first part of November, and those of
us who did well felt quite proud. turned in all A's
that first semester. I didn't find it as
challenging as high school, to tell you the truth.
And were you already, you were already working out
for track? Colonel Andy says everybody will hit
the cross-country course. Shot putters, discus
throwers, high jumpers, sprinters, hurdlers,
distance men, everybody went out on the
cross-country course. which started on the west
side of the track opposite the old depot where the
old creamery was. And we went clockwise
around the course. And all it was was an old gravel
road. It was hazardous because it had rocks on it
the size of double fists. But Colonel Andy
insisted that everybody go out there and do it. And
that road happened to go through the pig farm where
George Bush Library now stands. I don't know if he
knows that or not. But those of us who were not
cross-country inclined found shortcuts that
after we'd get down there a quarter of a mile or so,
and we would cut across. And we would sit out in the
middle of the pasture out there, allow a suitable
amount of time to go by, and then we would go finish
the rest of the course. Of course, I'm sure it
wasn't any secret to Colonel Andy what we were
doing. But it was really hazardous, because a lot
of guys would turn their ankles on those rocks. And
I think he kind of weaned himself off of that in
later years. Now, A&M wasn't doing indoor track
then. There wasn't, was it? No, there was no indoor
track. That's what I thought. So you go home
Christmas looking forward to the spring, and that
special young lady was there. And did you feel that
you'd made a good choice about where to go to
college and all? Were you feeling good about being
an Aggie? I felt good about being an Aggie. Excuse
me, but I was having a little problem on the home
front there because she was enrolled at Lamar.
It was a junior college at that time. And her folks
were making noises about sending her to Austin,
Texas University. And we talked this over and I
said, hey, that's not gonna work. You know, I can't
be running down there to Austin, and I can
hitchhike, but you don't have a car, and you won't
be able to come up to College Station unless you
find somebody who does. And you're going to be down
there with all those frat rats, and I don't know how
this is going to work out. And she said, well, don't
worry about it. Well, I was worried about it,
because she was a very popular girl. She was a class
favorite. class beauty and all this kind of stuff.
And I had made inquiries to some of the assistant
coaches at Texas since I hadn't run into track meet
with the maroon and white yet, if their offer of a
scholarship was still open. And they said, yes, it
was.
Just to show you what integrity there was among
coaches in those days, Clyde Littlefield called
me and he said, yes, your scholarship is still
open, but have you thought this over and have you
talked to Colonel Andy? I said, no, I have not
talked to him yet because I didn't feel there was
any point in talking to him until I found out
whether you had a place for me. There were no limits
on scholarships in those days. And he said, yes,
it's still open, but I'd advise you to talk to
Colonel Andy. I said, yes, I'll do that. Well, the
next thing I knew, the next day, bright and early,
Colonel Andy was at my dorm room before I went to
breakfast. Clyde Littlefield had called him the
night before and said, I need to tell you this. And
they were great friends. And so he came up to see me
and asked me what was wrong. And I said, my girl is
going to go to Texas. And I can see me just losing out
big time. And he said, well, we've got to try to work
something out. I said, I'm working on it
currently, Andy. I'm working on it. So at midterm,
my fish year. I just said, hey, I'm getting more
worried by the minute, and I'm not able to
concentrate and work out properly and study
properly. Let's get married. So we did. We
borrowed her folks' car and went to Cone Springs in
San Jacinto County and got a Methodist minister
out of bed and got him to marry us. And then we went
back home and told our folks.
Did they both approve? Didn't have much choice. It
was a fait accompli. All right, and that's at
midterm? Midterm. Okay. And so then did you, did
she come up here? Not right away. Okay. Because
there was just no place. Right. There were a lot of
veterans who had taken up all the available
housing. There were no apartments. The kind of
thing that you see today just didn't exist. Before
you got married that fall, how did you and she
communicate? Phone calls, letters, what?
Letters. Phone calls were too expensive. Three
cents. About how often? Oh, two or three times a
week. And did your folks call you? No, there was no
place they could call. Hart Hall didn't have a
telephone. Did you write back and forth to your
parents? Wrote back and forth. Did your mom send
some kush? She sent kush. She sent fish packages,
we called them. And of course, I would go home about
maybe two weekends a month. You recall my roommate
had a car, and he was in Beaumont. And we'd go home at
least once a month, and perhaps I would hitchhike
the other weekend. So I was home a couple times a
month. Alright, so that second semester your
freshman year, you're married, but your wife's
still in Beaumont. And what effect does those
realities have on your academic and athletic
efforts that spring?
I made all A's again. And the work wasn't that
tough, to tell you the truth. And I was undefeated.
my freshman year. And you ran both hurdles? Ran
both hurdles. Did you run a relay also? I ran mile
relay and sprint relay. What was it, for you as a
hurdler, what was it like, the difference between
the height of the high school and the college high
hurdles? Was that a tough adjustment? Not for me.
Some of the guys coming out of high school had
trouble adjusting to the highs. Billy Bless, for
example, had trouble adjusting to the highs. He
was a little gun-shy because he would hit his left
knee on the hurdle, and he bloodied and bruised his
left knee up pretty high, which as a consequence
would force him to go to the hurdles even higher. Of
course, if you do that, the more time you spend in
the air means less time spent on the ground
running. I was fortunate enough that I could get
over. There was just a three-inch difference, and
after a couple of weeks, it didn't make that much
difference to me. Describe your practice routine
once the weather gets warm enough where you can
really work out consistently outside. I would
usually start out with a
lap or two to warm up This is all inside Kyle Field?
Inside Kyle Field. It's the only track we had.
We would run the straightaways and jog the curves.
We'd do that for a couple of three laps and then we
would go practice a few starts and we'd put up the
hurdles and run through say half a flight of
hurdles and about twice a week we'd run
competition with a full flight of hurdles, both
high and low. And you worked out about how long?
We'd work out about two hours, two and a half hours.
When in the afternoon was that? Generally from, we
would arrange our schedule and the profs in the
registrar were very accommodating. They'd let us
terminate our classes around 2 to 3 o'clock,
unless you had a lab-type class in the afternoon.
Then you might not get out till 4. And we'd get out
there about 3, work out till about 5.30. Describe
Coach Andy as a coach at practice. What did he do and
not do? What was his routine? Colonel Andy was kind
of a low-key type coach. He was not a lot of
hands-on. Colonel Andy and Ray Putnam,
they were the coaches. Ray Putnam handled quarter
milers and above in terms of distance. Colonel
Andy handled sprinters, hurdlers, and field
event men. And he'd spend quite a bit of time with
the field event people. And he would work with us on
our starts, particularly. and he left me pretty
much alone on the hurdles because I guess he
figured I had learned all the technique I was going
to learn at that stage of the game and he wasn't
going to mess with it. He from time to time would say
have you tried this or could you get your lead arm
down a little bit lower or something like that and
that was about it. Now did you have a model hurdler
that was your your uh idol your no no i didn't um i
knew about guys like freddie walcott who set the
world record at 13-7 but you i'd never met him i'd
never seen him run you had no movies of people in
those days you had still photos and You really had
nothing to learn from. And did you have a goal that
first year of time or anything? No, I had no goal
other than just to run as hard and as fast as I could,
as often as I could. Now, in the Southwest
Conference in those days, the Aggies and the
Longhorns were the two best teams. Weren't they in
track? So was Rice. Rice was right up there. Oh,
that's right. That's right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Who
was coaching Rice then?
One of the football coaches, if I'm not mistaken.
Yeah. Rice had Augie Erfer. Yeah, yeah. Tobin
wrote.
They had Red Brown, Otha Bird,
Bill Houghton.
Tommy Cox. Don't forget Tommy Cox. And there were
freshman meets then. When, what was your, do you
remember your first meet as a college student? I
remember it very clearly. Where? The first meet we
had was a
triangular meet with North Texas and
John Tarleton. John Tarleton ran against the
Fish. They were in junior college. And even at the
big meets, junior college Fish would always run
together. And I remember that John Tarleton had a
hurdler and North Texas had a hurdler.